# What is Pelagius?

Pelagius is a Discord bot that was originally written for Evertiro's
[LOTD Plus Skyrim modding guide](https://lotdplus.com). This later expanded to
[Lexy's Legacy of the Dragonborn guide](https://lexyslotd.com) as well as
[The Phoenix Flavour](https://thephoenixflavour.com). Originally, the wasn't
actually a bot at all, just me running a python script manually to compare my
own loadorder to that of other users when they uploaded it. Naturally, the
problem with that is that I have to be there all the time to run my script.
I then decided to start developing a standalone Discord bot written in
Discord.py to accomplish the same thing, but automatically. I later switched
over to Discord.js, as well as implemented a few other features, such as being
able to ignore certain plugins in the list. However, that's the past. Let's talk
about now and the future.

## What does it do?

Basically it lets your users upload a loadorder.txt file and compare it to a
master file.

* Staff upload a "master" loadorder.txt to be compared to (generated by MO2)
* Users can upload a loadorder.txt and it will be analyzed
  * This analysis will tell them what plugins they shouldn't have and what
    they're missing compared to the master list
* Staff can pause and resume validation, useful for updates to the list
* Staff can upload a "skips" file which contains a list of plugins to ignore
* Staff can upload a "reasons" JSON file which is used to tell users why a
  certain plugin is missing or extra
* Old versions of uploaded staff files are automatically archived
* Properly supports multiple Discord servers, keeping staff lists and master
  files separate
* User help info can be found by running `!loadorder help` in an approved channel
* A full list of staff commands can be found by running `!loadorder staffhelp`

## How do I set it up?

First, click [here](https://discord.com/api/oauth2/authorize?client_id=714232981774139442&permissions=100352&scope=bot)
to add Pelagius to your server. Select the server you want to add the bot to,
and ensure that the check boxes for the "Send Messages," "Attach Files," and
"Read Message History" permissions are selected. Finally, click the "Authorize"
button to add the bot to your server.

Once the bot has joined the server, you need to do a couple of things.

If you're not the server owner, you'll need to be added as "staff" for the bot.

* Have the server owner run the command `!loadorder staff add [@your-name]`

You'll need at least one channel in which the bot is allowed to check load order.

* Go to that channel, and run the command `!loadorder channel add`

Finally, you need a master file

* Get your loadorder.txt ([example](example/loadorder.txt)) (generated by MO2)
  and upload it with the command `!loadorder file update loadorder`

That's it, Pelagius is ready to run!

If you want, you can also upload a "skips" and "reasons" file using the command
`!loadorder file update [file]`.

* The skips file ([example](example/skips.txt)) will ignore all listed filenames
  (files should be entered one per line)
* The reasons file ([example](example/reasons.json)) will provide reasons to
  your users as to why they shouldn't have a certain file (it needs to be JSON)

I also suggest setting the loadorder path so your users know where to get the
loadorder.txt file. You should probably pick a path relative to a user's MO2
install location, such as `MO2/profiles/[your profile]/loadorder.txt`. 
To do this, run `!loadorder settings path [your path]`

## Necessary setup for development testing

First off, run `npm install` from the bot directory to install development
dependencies.

Testing can be done in a variety of ways, depending on your personal preference.
The easiest way is to simply edit the included `.pelagiusrc.yaml` file and fill
in the necessary information. However, this is obviously not ideal as subsequent
git pulls will result in overwriting. A far more reliable option is to copy the
provided file to your home directory and edit it there:

```bash
cp .pelagiusrc.yaml ~/.pelagiusrc.yaml
```

You can also set the parameters at runtime through both command arguments and
environment variables. The current configuration options are defined as follows:

### `bot.prefix`

The `bot.prefix` setting sets the prefix for use with the bot, and defaults to
`!`. It can also be set using the `PELAGIUS__BOT__PREFIX` environment variable
or the `--bot--prefix` command-line argument.

### `bot.token`

The `bot.token` setting sets the Discord application bot token for the bot. It
can be found in the "Bot" section for [your application](https://discord.com/developers/applications/),
and can be set using the `PELAGIUS__BOT__TOKEN` environment variable or the
`--bot-token` command-line argument.

### `bot.log_channel`

The `bot.log_channel` setting sets the channel to use for bot event logging. It
should be the channel ID, not the name, and the bot must have permission to post
in the specified channel. It can also be set using the `PELAGIUS__BOT__LOG_CHANNEL`
environment variable or the `--bot--log_channel` command-line argument. Note
that this channel _should not_ be publicly accessible.
